### Youtube Video Dashboard

#### Video Demo: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cSZhbMPCAwE"

### Description:

#### API Calls
Firstly, I worked with Youtube API, to extract relevant information about the videos posted by a particular youtube channel. In this project, I chose the channel Zhong.TV. After obtaining my API keys and the Channel ID, I created the desired URL with the API key, Channel ID and the relevant fields specified in the paths, worked with requests library from python to pull data from the API into a response. After identifying the key that holds the desired information in the response, I created functions that would iterrate the response in a loop to extract relevant information about the videos listed in the Channel.

#### Data Formatting and Cleaning
I proceeded to create a dataframe using pandas library in python to store all the videos and statistics extracted from the API, and performed a basic stage of cleaning the data and formatting it in a way I liked it to be. 

#### Online PostgreSQL Database using AWS, and establishing connection to Oncloud Database
After, I created an online database with Amazon Web Services, with PostgreSQL engine, with the intent of importing data from the pandas dataframe to save it in the cloud database. I proceeded to a security group with personalised inbound and outbound rules to allow for personal established connection between the dataframe and database. With essential information about the database, I utilised the psycopg2 library, a PostgreSQL wrapper, to establish a connection between the dataframe and database. 

#### SQL queries to update and insert data to Database, to allow the Dashboard to be real-time
I then created a cursor using the connection created for me to execute SQL queries that would reflect on the cloud database. Using the cursor, I executed SQL queries to create a table with the database, insert new rows of values from dataframe to database and update existing rows with real time information. Using DBeaver, I connected to the cloud database, and execute queries to double check the information is stored correctly in the database. 

#### PowerBI Dashboard Creation and Personalisation
Following that, I imported data from database by establishing a ODBC connection into PowerBI, where I made final edits to the datavalues to have the desired format. I created new measures and columns to create relative indicators like grossing rates for better assessment of growth in a video's popularity, likes and views per video. Using the available information, I created visuals that utilised the selected data fields to show relationships using graphs, bars and tables, something that mere numbers from the extracted data can't show. I created tooltip pages, for visuals in my main dashboard to show more information when hovered over. I used slicer visuals to store month and year variables, so that it is possible to view stats and relationships for that particular year or month. I adjusted the properties of certain visuals, such that they only react to certain changes to the particular visual. I included a Line and Stack column chart that shows the number of videos made by month of the year, and the viewcount of each month, to display the relationship between the channel's video production rate, and the view count. I also included a grossing videos table, to show the user, which videos are gaining popularity at a relatively rapid rate. In the case where user wants to identify which videos are being liked the most, I included a table that shows exactly that. I applied conditional formatting, to the background color of the value of like count, to emphasize on the difference between the values visually. To show the top viewed videos for the particular year or month, I included a stacked barchart, that shows the titles of the most popular videos and their respective view counts. I added data labels to the bars for a more detailed understanding of the statistics. I chose to remove the axis where data labels are shown to go after the minimalist look, as I believe, clutter free dashboards with important information are often the most appealing and educating ones. I dedicated a large rounded rectangle at the middle of the page, that holds the summarised essential information for the time frame, in card visuals. These include, total number of videos the channel has produced, the total views received on all the videos, views received per video, likes received per video, and total amount of likes received. I utilised shapes to really give each of the visual some white space for aesthetics purposes After the positions and sizings were finalised, I then proceeded to elevate the design of the whole dashboard to be more visually appealing to the potential clients that are viewing this. I took a screenshot of the dashboard, and used powerpoint to aid me in the design process. I used shapes of equal sizes to identify each of the major visuals in the dashboard, and made color theme changes to the background. Using selectional panel in powerpoint, I could make adjustments to the edits if needed. After creating a background theme with the allocated spaces of the shapes, I saved it as a image, and imported it over to powerBI, where I did final adjustments to the dimensions of the visuals to make sure they fit into the shapes. I adjusted the color of the background of each visual according to the hex value of shapes. I proceeded to customize the theme, such that the texts stand out, and the colors representing lines and bars were matching with the background.
